.TH "Mri" 1 "1 January 1991"
.SH NAME
Mri \- Motif Resource Interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Mri \fIresource_file_name\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mri
is a tool for developing Motif based user interfaces.  The look and
feel of the user interface can be specified in one or more X resource
files. Mri includes a complete Motif widget set.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Mri 
accepts all of the standard 
.I X
toolkit command line options (see
.I X(1))
.SH FILES
.IP /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/M[0-9][0-9]*
Example resource files.
.IP .../Doc/*
Documents describing the Widget Creation Library (Wcl), Ari, and Mri.
The Doc directory is probably named ...contrib/Wcl/Doc within the X11
source tree.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.IP XUSERFILESEARCHPATH,XAPPLRESDIR,HOME,XENVIRONMENT
Specifies the directory where to look for the initial resource file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BI Ari (1),	
.BI X (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Brunecky at Auto-trol Technology, Denver (marbru@auto-trol.com)
wrote the initial code and posted it to comp.windows.x with the title
POOR MAN's UIL - WsXc.

David E. Smyth (formerly of Jet Propulsion Labs, Pasadena) rewrote WsXc
into it's present form - Wcl, adding Ari and Mri interpreters, providing
numerous enhancements, examples, documentation and overall support.

David Harrison of the UC Berkeley Electronics Research Lab
(davidh@ic.Berkeley.EDU or ...!ucbvax!ucbcad!davidh) wrote a very
useful Table widget.  Kee Hinckley (nazgul@alphalpa.com) wrote a
version of Table which works with Motif.  The Table widget, in both its
incarnations, is so usefull we've included it with this distribution.  
Newer versions may be is separately available from archive sites. 

Many people helped alot by providing bug fixes, enhancements, suggestions,
and just plain feedback.  There are many who helped, including Andrew Peebles
at MIPS, Randy Brown, Art Poley, Mike Yee of OSF, Richard Hesketh, Kaleb
Keithley at JPL and Ron Newman at BBN.

