.TH HELLO_XCMS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
hello_xcms - The client to display "Hello Xcms"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "hello_xcms"
[\fI-toolkitoption\fP...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIhello_xcms\fP program merely displays the numbers 1 and 2 and
Hello Xcms each in their own window within its display window.  The
program demonstrates some of the functionality of a cooperating 
client.  The windows displaying the numbers and the Hello Xcms will
change their foreground and background colors when a color change
request is initiated by another client, such as the TekColor (TM) Editor
(xtici).
.SH OPTIONS
The program accepts all the standard X Toolkit command line options,
of which the following are used most often:
.TP 8
.B \-display \fR[\fIhostname:number.screen_number\fP]
This option specifies the display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for the default background of the
window.  The default background is \fIwhite\fP.  The background color
of each window within the main window can be set either with
the X Defaults or with the -xrm option.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for the border of the window.  The
default is \fIblack\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for the default foreground of the
window.  The default foreground is \fIblack\fP.  The foreground color
of each window within the main window can be set either with
the X Defaults or with the -xrm option.
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option specifies that reverse video should be simulated by reversing
the foreground and background colors.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This option specifies the preferred size and position for the main window.
.TP 8
.B \-xrm \fIresourcestring\fP
This option specifies a resource string to be used.  This is especially
useful for setting the resources that do not have their own command
line options.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the Form and Label widgets from the Athena Widget Set.
It should understand all the core resource names and classes for the X Toolkit
along with the resource names and classes of these two widgets.  
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get the default host and display number.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIX(1x11), xrdb(1x11), xtici(1x11)\fP InterClient Communication Convention Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Adams (Tektronix, Inc)
