This directory contains the libraries and utilities for writing applications
that use the Display PostScript extension to X.  The contents are

  doc - documentation on how to use all of this
  include - include files needed for writing DPS/X applications
  clients
    pswrap - a utility to compile PostScript code fragments into C procedures
    makepsres - a utility to create PostScript resource location files
  lib
    dps - the interface library to the Display PostScript extension
    dpstk - a toolkit of useful routines for Display PostScript programmers
    psres - utilities to locate fonts and other PostScript resources
  tests
    pswtest - an suite of tests for pswrap and the DPS/X system
  demos
    dpsexec - interact directly with the PostScript interpreter
    texteroids - sort of like the game asteroids, but with text
    xepsf - display an EPSF file on your screen
  motifdemos
    dpsclock - scalable clock a la Salvador Dali
    draw - simple drawing editor with text, ellipses, and rectangles
    fontview - preview the various fonts available on your system
    scratchpad - graphical editor for manipulating text
    wonderland - show off DPS/X imaging capabilities

Pswtest in the tests directory will verify that your build of pswrap and
libdps.a was correct and that your header files are properly configured.

This distribution does not contain the source for the Display PostScript
extension.  The extension is available on workstations sold by Digital
Equipment Corporation, IBM, and Silicon Graphics, Inc.  Having this
distribution will let you run applications on other platforms and display
them on a workstation with the Display PostScript extension.  The libraries
in this distribution also contain new features not yet included in the
libraries supplied by these companies, so are useful if you're developing on
those platforms.  Many of the demo programs use new features of the libraries
and so may not link using the vendor-supplied DPS/X libraries.


NEW CONFIG PARAMETERS USED BY THIS PACKAGE

HasMotif - controls whether to build the widgets and demos that rely
	upon having Motif (also see below)

DebugLibDps - controls whether to build debugging versions of the various
	libraries.
ProfileLibDps - controls whether to build profiled versions of the various
	libraries.

NoStrstr - define this on systems that do not have strstr in libc.  (Some
	Sun3 versions of SunOS, at least.)

ImageDir - defines where to install the images used by the sample programs.
	Defaults to $(LIBDIR)/images.

DefaultResourcePath - the default library for the Font Selection Box to use
	when searching for downloadable fonts.  Defaults to NULL.

If your C compiler does not support function prototyes, you must go into the
.cf file for your architecture and add -D_NO_PROTO to the StandardDefines
entry.  If you use the configuration files supplied with Motif, this will be
defined for you.

If you build the Motif demos, you will need to make sure XMLIB is defined to
be the Motif library (normally -lXm).  Again, if you use the configuration
files supplied with Motif, this will be defined for you.

The files clients/makepsres/makepsres.c and lib/psres/PSres.c need to include
the header file for use with opendir/readdir/closedir.  This is not the same
on all systems; on some it's <dirent.h>, on others <direct.h> and on others
<sys/dir.h>.  If your system does not comply with POSIX (i.e. use <dirent.h>)
you may need to edit these two files.

If you are not using one of the following machine architectures, you may
need to edit the file include/dpsconfig.h to support your configuration:
	mc680x0 series, i80x86 series, IBM R6000, MIPS Rx000 series,
	Sparc, VAX

The default configuration is for an architecture that uses IEEE floating
point and uses big-endian byte order.   If your architecture qualifies you
don't need to edit dpsconfig.h; the default will work for you.

/*
 * Copyright (C) 1984-1991 by Adobe Systems Incorporated.
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
 * provided that the above copyright notices appear in all copies and that
 * both those copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
 * supporting documentation and that the name of Adobe Systems
 * Incorporated not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
 * distribution of the software without specific, written prior
 * permission.  If any portion of this software is changed, it cannot be
 * marketed under Adobe's trademarks and/or copyrights unless Adobe, in
 * its sole discretion, approves by a prior writing the quality of the
 * resulting implementation.
 * 
 * ADOBE MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THE SOFTWARE FOR
 * ANY PURPOSE.  IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.
 * ADOBE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
 * NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ADOBE BE LIABLE
 * TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
 * NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR IN
 * CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.  ADOBE WILL NOT
 * PROVIDE ANY TRAINING OR OTHER SUPPORT FOR THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * PostScript, Display PostScript, and Adobe are trademarks of Adobe Systems
 * Incorporated registered in the U.S.A. and other countries.
 *
 * Author: Adobe Systems Incorporated
 */
