.\"
.\" $Id: ximrc.man,v 1.1 1991/09/13 08:12:19 proj Exp $
.\"
.TH XIMRC 4 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
ximrc \- Environment setting file of Input Manager of the X Window
System Version 11 (xwnmo(1X))
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/local/lib/wnn/ximrc (Default)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIximrc\fP file sets up the environment for the \fIxwnmo\fP.
Individual settings can be specified for each user.
Duplicate entries will be overwritten.
Lines that start with a semicolon (;) are comments.
.PP
\fIXwnmo\fP will search this file as follows:
.TP 8
1. Resource "ximrcName"
.br
2. $HOME/.ximrc
.br
3. /usr/local/lib/wnn/ximrc (Default)
.PP
The following settings are specified in this file.  Any setting which is not 
specified will use the default value.  
.TP 8
.B setuumrc <\fIlanguage_name\fP> <\fIuumrc_file_name\fP>
Specifies the \fIuumrc\fP file that \fIxwnmo\fP uses for uumrc each language.
The default is "@LIBDIR/@LANG/uumrc".
.TP 8
.B preloadrkfile <\fIlanguage_name\fP>
Specifies the language that automaton conversion pre-load.
In default, the language of Root-mode is loaded.
.TP 8
.B setbackspacechar <\fIbackspace_char\fP>
Specifies the charcter for back-space.
If it isn't set, \fIXwnmo\fP will get ERASE code of /dev/console.
If \fIxwnmo\fP couldn't open /dev/console, the default is 0xff.
.SH EXAMPLE
setuumrc        ja_JP           /usr/demos/ja_JP/uumrc
.br
setuumrc        zh_CN           /usr/demos/zh_CN/uumrc
.br
preloadrkfile   ja_JP
.br
preloadrkfile   zh_CN
.br
setbackspacechar ^H
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xwnmo(1X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991 by OMRON Corporation
.br
Copyright 1991 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.SH AUTHOR
Seiji Kuwari (OMRON Corporation)
