.\" Copyright 1991 by James J. Dempsey <jjd@bbn.com>
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, James J. Dempsey makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH XRLOGIN 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrlogin \- start an xterm that uses rlogin or telnet to connect to a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrlogin
[-l username] [-telnet] remote-host
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xrlogin
opens an xterm window and runs rlogin or telnet to login to a remote host.
.PP
Xrlogin
automatically passes the -name argument to xterm with a value of
"xterm-hostname" where hostname is the name of the remote host.  This
allows the user to specify resources in their server's resource
manager which are specific to xterms from a given host.  For example,
this feature can be used to make all xterm windows to a given remote
host be the same color or use a specific font or start up in a
specific place on the screen.  Xrsh(1) passes the same string so they
are compatible in this regard.  
.PP
Xrlogin specifies 
that the default title for the new xterm will be "hostname"
where hostname is the name of the remote host.  
.PP
One could also use xrlogin's sister command xrsh(1) to open a window
to a remote host.  In the case of xrsh, the xterm would run on the
remote host and use X as the connection protocol while xrlogin would
run the xterm on the local host and use rlogin or telnet as the
connection protocol.  See xrsh(1) for a discussion of the merits of
each scheme.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-l username\fP"
When not using -telnet, use username as the id to login to the remote
host.
.IP "\fB-telnet\fP"
Use the -telnet protocol to open the connection instead of rlogin.  In
general rlogin is preferred because it can be configured to not prompt
the user for a password.  Rlogin also automatically propagates window
size change signals (SIGWINCH) to the remote host so that applications
running there will learn of a new window size.  Use of telnet
provided mostly for hosts that don't support rlogin.
.SH COMMON PROBLEMS
Make sure that the local host is specified in the .rhosts file on the
remote host or in the remote hosts /etc/hosts.equiv file.  See
rlogin(1) for more information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "xrlogin yoda"
Start a local xterm which connects to the remote host yoda using rlogin.
.IP "xrlogin -telnet c70"
Open a local xterm which connects to the remote host c70 using telnet.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
xrsh(1), rlogin(1), telnet(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Stephen Gildea <gildea@expo.lcs.mit.edu> and James J. Dempsey <jjd@bbn.com>.
