.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/flush.3t,v 1.5 91/07/16 16:14:28 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFFlush 3T "June 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
TIFFFlush, TIFFFlushData \- flush pending writes to an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFFlush(TIFF* tif)"
.sp
.B "int TIFFFlushData(TIFF* tif)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR TIFFFlush ()
causes any pending writes for the specified file (including writes
for the current directory)
to be done.
0 is returned if an error is encountered, otherwise 1.
In normal operation this call is never needed \- the library
automatically does any flushing required.
.PP
.IR TIFFFlushData ()
flushes any pending data writes for the specified file (i.e.
no directory information).
0 is returned if an error is encountered, otherwise 1.
In normal operation this call is never needed \- the library
automatically does any flushing required.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedTile (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteRawStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteRawTile (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteScanline (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteTile (3T)
