.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/query.3t,v 1.4 91/07/16 16:14:30 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFCurrentRow 3T "June 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
TIFFCurrentRow, TIFFCurrentStrip, TIFFCurrentTile, TIFFFileno, TIFFFileName, TIFFGetMode, TIFFIsTiled  \- query routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "long TIFFCurrentRow(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "int TIFFCurrentStrip(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "int TIFFCurrentTile(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "int TIFFFileno(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "char* TIFFFileName(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "int TIFFGetMode(TIFF* tif)"
.br
.B "int TIFFIsTiled(TIFF* tif)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The following routines return status information about an open
.SM TIFF
file.
.PP
.IR TIFFCurrentRow (),
.IR TIFFCurrentStrip (),
and
.IR TIFFCurrentTile (),
return the current row, strip, and tile, respectively,
that is being read or written.
These values are updated each time a read or write is done.
.PP
.IR TIFFFileno ()
returns the underlying file descriptor used to access the 
.SM TIFF
image in the filesystem.
.PP
.IR TIFFFileName ()
returns the pathname argument passed to
.IR TIFFOpen ()
or
.IR TIFFFdOpen ().
.PP
.IR TIFFGetMode ()
returns the mode with which the underlying file was opened.
On
.SM UNIX
systems, this is the value passed to the
.IR open (2)
system call.
.PP
.IR TIFFIsTiled ()
returns a non-zero value if the image data has
a tiled organization.
Zero is returned if the image data is organized in strips.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFFdOpen (3T)
