.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/readline.3t,v 1.7 91/07/16 16:14:33 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFReadScanline 3T "May 9, 1990"
.SH NAME
TIFFReadScanline \- read and decode a scanline from an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFReadScanline(TIFF* tif, u_char* buf, u_int row, u_int sample)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Return the data for the specified row in the data buffer
.IR buf .
The data are returned decompressed and, typically, in the native byte-
and bit-ordering, but are otherwise packed (see further below).
The buffer must be large enough to hold an entire scanline of data.
Applications should call the routine
.IR TIFFScanlineSize ()
to find out the size (in bytes) of a scanline buffer.
The
.I row
parameter is always used by
.IR TIFFReadScanline ();
the
.I sample
parameter is used only if data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
.IR TIFFReadScanline
returns \-1 if it detects an error; otherwise 1 is returned.
.SH NOTES
The library attempts to hide bit- and byte-ordering differences
between the image and the native machine by converting data
to the native machine order.
Bit reversal is always done if the
.I FillOrder
tag is opposite to the native machine bit order.
Byte swapping of 16- and 32-bit samples is automatically
done when
.IR Compression =1
(``no compression''), but otherwise is left to the
decompression algorithms (which should generate decompressed
data in the native byte ordering of the machine).
.PP
In C++ the
.I sample
parameter defaults to 0.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.PP
.BR "Compression algorithm does not support random access" .
Data was requested in a non-sequential order from a file that
uses a compression algorithm and that has
.I RowsPerStrip
greater than one.
That is, data in the image is stored in a compressed form,
and with multiple rows packed into a strip.
In this case, the library does not support random access to the data.
The data should either be accessed sequentially, or the file
should be converted so that each strip is made up of one row
of data.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFReadEncodedStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFReadRawStrip (3T)
