.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/readdir.3t,v 1.4 91/07/16 16:14:33 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFReadDirectory 3T "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
TIFFReadDirectory \- get the contents of the next directory in an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFReadDirectory(TIFF* tif)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read the next directory in the specified file and make it the
current directory.
If the current directory has been modified and the file is opened for writing,
the current directory is first written out.
.IR TIFFReadDirectory ()
returns 1 if the next directory was successfully read.
Otherwise 0 is returned if an error was encountered,
or if there are no more directories to be read.
Applications only need to call
.IR TIFFReadDirectory ()
to read multiple subfiles in a single
.SM TIFF
file.
Normally the first directory in a file is automatically when
.IR TIFFOpen ()
is called.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
All warning messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFWarning (3T)
routine.
.PP
.BR "Seek error accessing TIFF directory" .
An error occurred while positioning to the location of the
directory.
.PP
\fBWrong data type %d for field "%s"\fP.
The tag entry in the directory had an incorrect data type.
For example, an
.I ImageDescription
tag with a
.SM SHORT
data type.
.PP
\fBTIFF directory is missing required "%s" field\fP.
The specified tag is required to be present by the
.SM TIFF
5.0 specification, but is missing.
The directory is (usually) unusable.
.PP
.BR "%s: Rational with zero denominator" .
A directory tag has a
.SM RATIONAL
value whose denominator is zero.
.PP
\fBIncorrect count %d for field "%s"\fP.
The specified tag's count field is bad.
For example, a count other than 1 for a
.I SubFileType
tag.
.PP
\fBCannot handle different per-sample values for field "%s"\fP.
The image has different
.I BitsPerSample
values for each of its samples.
.PP
\fBCount mismatch for field "%s"; expecting %d, got %d\fP.
The count field in a
.I StripByteCounts
or
.I StripOffsets
tag does not agree with the expected number of strips calculated
by the library (from other tags).
This should never happen, so if it does, the library refuses to
read the directory.
.PP
.BR "Invalid TIFF directory; tags are not sorted in ascending order" .
The directory tags are not properly sorted as specified
in the
.SM TIFF
5.0 specification.
This error is not fatal.
.PP
.BR "ignoring unknown field with tag %d (0x%x)"
An unknown tag was encountered in the directory;
the library ignores all such tags.
.PP
\fBTIFF directory is missing required "StripByteCounts" field, calculating from imagelength\fP.
The image violates the specification by not having a necessary field.
The library will calculate the value from the file size if
the image has a single strip.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteDirectory (3T),
.IR TIFFSetDirectory (3T)
