.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/wretile.3t,v 1.3 91/07/16 16:14:37 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFWriteEncodedTile 3T "June 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
TIFFWritedEncodedTile \- compress and write a tile of data to an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFWriteEncodedTile(TIFF* tif, u_int tile, u_char* buf, u_int size)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compress
.I size
bytes of raw data from
.I buf
and
.B append
the result to the end of the specified tile.
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedTile ()
returns \-1 if an error was encountered; otherwise it returns
the value of
.IR size .
Note that the value of
.I tile
is a ``raw tile number.''
That is, the caller must take into account whether or not the
data are organized in separate places (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
.IR TIFFComputeTile ()
automatically does this when converting an (x,y,z,sample)
coordinate quadruple to a tile number.
.PP
The library attempts to hide bit- and byte-ordering differences
between the image and the native machine by converting data
from the native machine order.
Bit reversal is always done if the
.I FillOrder
tag is opposite to the native machine bit order.
Byte swapping of 16- and 32-bit samples is automatically
done when
.IR Compression =1
(``no compression''), but otherwise is left to the
compression algorithms (which should generate compressed
data in the native byte ordering of the machine).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.PP
\fB%s: Must set "ImageWidth" before writing data\fP.
The image's width has not be set before the first write.
See
.IR TIFFSetField (3T)
for information on how to do this.
.PP
\fB%s: Must set "PlanarConfiguration" before writing data\fP.
The organization of data has not be defined before the first write.
See
.IR TIFFSetField (3T)
for information on how to do this.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteTile (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteRawTile (3T)
