.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/writedir.3t,v 1.5 91/07/16 16:14:38 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFWriteDirectory 3T "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
TIFFWriteDirectory \- write the current directory in an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFWriteDirectory(TIFF* tif)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Write the contents of the current directory to the file and setup
to create a new subfile in the same file.
Applications only need to call
.IR TIFFWriteDirectory ()
when writing multiple subfiles to a single
.SM TIFF
file.
.IR TIFFWriteDirectory ()
is automatically called by
.IR TIFFClose ()
to write a modified directory if the file is open for writing.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.PP
.BR "Error flushing data before directory write" .
Before writing the contents of the current directory, any pending
data are flushed.
This message indicates that an error occurred while doing this.
.PP
.BR "Cannot write directory, out of space" .
There was not enough space to allocate a temporary area for
the directory that was to be written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFError (3T),
.IR TIFFReadDirectory (3T),
.IR TIFFSetDirectory (3T)
