.TH ELK 1 "15 January 1991"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
elk, scheme \- extensible Scheme interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scheme
[
.B \-l \-|\f2file\fP
] [
.B \-h \f2KBytes\fP
] [
.B \-g
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-bc
] [[
.B \-\^\-
] \f2args\fP]
.LP
.BR elk .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Elk
(Extension Language Kit) is a Scheme interpreter intended
to be used as a general extension language.
Normally, 
.I Elk
is linked together with the application that uses it as its
extension language.
.I Elk
can also be used as a stand-alone implementation of the
Scheme language.
.LP
When called without the
.B \-l
option,
.I Elk
loads the standard \*(lqtoplevel\*(rq to start an interactive session.
When called with
.BR "\-l \f2file\fP" ,
the contents of the specified file is loaded instead.
If a `\-' is given as a filename argument,
.I Elk
loads from standard input.
.LP
The
.B \-h \f2KBytes\fP
option is used to specify a non-standard heap size.
The default heap size is 512 KBytes.
.LP
The
.B \-g
option causes the interpreter to run the garbage collector each
time memory is allocated on the heap.
This is useful for writers of extensions who want to test the
garbage collect behavior of an extension.
Running
.I Elk
with the
.B \-g
option is likely to reveal GC-related bugs in extensions (such as not
properly protected local objects), as it triggers a garbage collection
at every possible point in time.
A dot is written to standard output each time a garbage collection is
performed when
.B \-g
has been specified.
.LP
The
.B \-v
(\f2verbose\fP) option causes the interpreter to write to standard
output the /bin/ld-invocation used to incrementally link each object
file that is loaded.
This is useful when the exact options, filenames, and libraries
passed to the system linker must be examined.
.LP
The
.B \-bc
(\f2backwards compatibility\fP or \f2bug compatibility\fP) option can
be specified to achieve backwards compatibility with older versions of
.IR Elk .
This enables you to run old applications that make use of questionable
features of earlier
.I Elk
versions.
.LP
The remaining
.I args
are put into a list of strings, and the Scheme variable
.B command-line-args
is bound to this list in the global environment.
If arguments could be interpreted as options, `\-\^-\' can be
used to indicate the end of the options.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 2i
/tmp/ldXXXXXX	Temporary files
.br
/bin/ld	System linker invoked for incremental linking
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Oliver Laumann
.SH BUGS
Redefinition of primitive procedures such as
.B car
or
.B display
can cause the toplevel to enter an endless loop that cannot be
interrupted by typing the interrupt key.
In this case
.I Elk
must be terminated by pressing the quit key or by killing it.
.LP
The
.B list?
predicate is currently not implemented.
