.TH ICUSTOM 1
.SH "NAME"
icustom \- Customizing tool for Canna
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "icustom [filename]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
icustom enables the setting and editing of initialize (customize) file 
to be conversational and simplified. 
.PP
If the initialize (customize) files exist when icustom(1) starts, 
they are read automatically.  The priority of reading them is basically 
the following order: 
.IP (1) 4
file specified in the environmental variable IROHAFILE
.IP (2) 4
\&.iroha under the home directory
.IP (3) 4
$(IROHALIB)/default.iroha
.IP NOTE 8
The variable IROHALIB is assigned to /usr/local/lib/iroha by default.
.PP
The reading is done also by directly specifying the initialize (customize)
file name in filename at start time.
.PP
Basic operations are as follows:  Use cursor keys to move the cursor.
Use the Return key for selection.  The ESC or 'q' key is available to
quit the menu.
.PP
The cursor moves responding to combination of a cursor key and the CTRL key.
It moves up, down, left, and right in response to pressing of 
CTRL+p, +n, +b, and +f, respectively.
.SH "MENU"
.IP "Read the customize file" 34
Enables an initialize (customize) file to be edited.
.IP "Retaining the result in the customize file" 34
Retains the result of editing (customizing) in a file.
.IP "Set the dictionary used" 34
Sets what Romaji-to-Kana table, 
system dictionary, Bushu conversion dictionary, 
and user dictionary are used.
.IP "Customize keys" 34
Customizes key operations.
.IP "Customize mode display character strings" 34
Sets the character strings displayed in each mode.
.IP "Customize other functions" 34
Sets the initial mode and On/Off options.
.IP "Quit" 34
Quits icustom(1).  If you select ``Retention and quit''
at this time, the result
of editing (customizing) is retained in the last read file.  If you select
``Cancel'', you can continue the editing (customizing).  This function is 
useful when you erroneously select "Cancel".
