.TH DICAR 1
.SH NAME
dicar \- Archive Binary Dictionary 
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B dicar
.B \-t
.I bindic1
.br
.B dicar
.B \-x
.I bindic1
[
.B bindic2
]
.br
.B dicar
.B \-d
.I bindic1
.I bindic2
.br
.B dicar
.B \-d 
.I bindic1
.I bindic2
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dicar
archives binary dictionary
.I bindic1.
The hyphen of each option may be omitted.
.OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
Displays the dictionaries contained in binary dictionary file
.I bindic1.
Each displayed name of the dictionaries consists of the text file name followed by extension '.d'.
This text file name is that before the dictionary file is converted into the binary file.  
.TP
.B \-x
Fetches dictionary 
.I bindic2
from
.I bindic1.
.I Bindic2
consists of the text file name followed by extension '.d'.  This text file name
is that before the dictionary file is converted into the binary file.
The fetched file
.I bindic2
becomes a dictionary file in binary format. If
.I bindic2
is omitted, all dictionaries within
.I bindic1
will be fetched.
.TP
.B \-r
Adds to
.I bindic1,
all dictionaries that are contained in the dictionary file specified in
.I bindic2.
Any dictionary in 
.I bindic1
that is contained in 
.I bindic1 is overwritten.
.TP
.B \-d
Deletes
.I bindic2
from
.I bindic1.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.B
% ls
.B
chimei.d shima.d
.B
% dicar \-t shima.d
.B 
(Text dictionary file name = Directory size + Word size, packed)
.B
% dicar r shima.d shima.mwd.d (Replaces shima.mwd.d.)
.B
% dicar r shima.d chimedi.d (Adds chimedi.d to shima.d.)
.B
% dicar \-t shma.d
.B
(Text dictionary file name = Directory size + Word size, packed)

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
dpbindic(1), mkbindic(1)

