.TH GLCLOCK 1 "Release 4" "XVersion 11"
.SH NAME
glclock - Date/Time display program
.B "glclock"
[-help] [-help-resources] [-display <displayname>] 
[-geometry <geometryspecification>] [-format <formatstring>]

Format String :
    %d day
    %m month (three char)           @h Hours (12 hour)
    %M month (written out)          @H Hours (24 hour)
    %y year (last 2 digits)r        @m Minutes
    %Y year (written out)           @s Seconds
    %w weekday (three char)         @p AM/PM
    %W weekday (written out)        @: Blinking colon (:)
    %% percent sign (%)             @@ at sign (@)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B glclock
Displays the current time/date in the format given. The format defaults to 
"%w %m %d @H:@m:@s @Y"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-help
Displays the help message, which is essentially the synopsis.
.TP 8
.B \-help-resources
Lists all of the resources which are referenced.  You need to be able to
connect to an X server for this to work.
.TP 8
.B \-display
Specifies which display the program should display on.  Generally 
this is hostname:0 
.TP 8
.B \-geometry
Specifies the geometry the the program should use.  This is a string of 
the format : [=][<width>x<height>][{+-}xoffset{+-}yoffset]  For example
to get the program to display in the lower right hand corner with a size
of 200 pixels by 100 pixels you would type 
.B glclock -geometry 200x100-0-0
.TP 8
.B \-format
Specifies the format that the date should take.  This is done using 
printf style modifiers.  Modifiers beginning with % deal with the date,
and modifiers beginning with @ deal with the time.  To print the date out
in the format Thursday June 27, 1991 18:17:40, the format specifier would be
"%W %M %d, %Y @H:@m:@s"  The default format specifier is 
"%w %m %d @H:@m:@s %Y", which is the format generated by ctime(3).
.TP 8

.SH RESOURCES
Type glclock -help-resources to get a list of resources used.

.SH FEATURES?
Glclock believes the system clock.  It will not resize itself if the size
of the text changes, also it will not size itself around the text.

.SH COPYRIGHT
It's not my fault, or my employers fault.

.SH AUTHORS
Eric Anderson(ea08+@andrew.cmu.edu)

.SH "See ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1), xclock(1), date(1), ctime(3)

