rusty@belch.berkeley.edu

NOTE FOR PEOPLE WHO WONDER WHY NONE OF THE BUTTONS SHOW UP WHEN THEY
START XCDPLAYER: You forgot to do a "make install" so that the
XCdplayer.ad file gets installed in the application defaults directory
(e.g., /usr/local/x11r4/lib/app-defaults).  If you can't install files
in the application defaults directory you can copy XCdplayer.ad to
~/XCdplayer and have a go at it.

Tue Jul 16 19:47:01 PDT 1991

No changes or additions, just added a TODO file.

Mon Jul  1 14:31:17 PDT 1991

Fixes from Dan Trottier (dan@maccs.dcss.McMaster.CA) so that the
volume control works reasonably.  This adds 2 new resources, volBase
and volPcent.  Both are floats.  There are also command line options
-volBase and -volPcent.  Reasonable values (also from Dan) are 187 for
volBase and 0.267 for volPcent.

Mon Mar 11 18:24:36 PST 1991

The track label is now a toggle button.  If you have trackLabel in
your .xrdb, .Xdefaults, or whatever file you'll need to change it to
trackButton.  When you click mouse button 1 on the track it displays
the highest track and when you release the mouse button it reverts
back to the current track.  Also moved the specification of the toggle
buttons' translations from the C code to the application defaults
file.

Tue Mar  5 17:56:30 PST 1991

The rewind button now works with shuffle; it goes back to the previous
track that it played.

Mon Mar  4 18:14:22 PST 1991

Fixed a bug in the shuffle code.

Wed Feb 20 20:22:26 PST 1991

Added a volume control scrollbar.  I don't find it very useful since
visually small movements of it cause large changes in volume; about
only the upper 10% is useful.  You can directly set the volume with
the middle mouse button; it "grabs" the scrollbar and moves it to
wherever the mouse is.  The left and right mouse buttons make the
scrollbar move in increments each time you click them.  The left mouse
button bumps it to the left and the right mouse button bumps it to the
right.  The amount they bump by is determined by where the mouse is in
the scrollbar; the more to the right the mouse is the more they bump
it.  (If anybody knows how to make the Athena form widget do a better
layout please tell me.)

Tue Jan 29 15:44:02 PST 1991

The shuffle button now works.  If shuffle is off it can only be turned
on if the cd is stopped, not while it is playing or paused.  If
shuffle is on it can be turned off while the cd is playing but due to
the way things work it will skip over the next track.  In other words,
if shuffle is on and it's playing track 3, you then click on the
shuffle button, when it finishes track 3 it will start playing track
5.  If anybody has a better pixmap for the shuffle button please send
it to me.

Thu Jan 24 19:41:43 PST 1991

For those that don't recognize the buttons; first row, from left to
right: play (right arrow), pause (two vertical bars), stop (square),
rewind (two left arrows with a bar on the tip), fast forward (two
right arrows with a bar on the tip), eject (up arrow with a bar
underneath).  (Fast forward and rewind are misnomers, they only skip
to the next or previous track.)  The second row, from left to right:
quit (bolt of lightning), repeat (two arrows chasing each other),
shuffle (three question marks).  Shuffle currently doesn't do
anything.

The standard button bitmaps (play, stop, etc.) came from an X program
for playing SPARC audio files; I think its name may have been xplayer.
I think I may have modified some of them; made them thicker or adjusted
them in minor ways.

Mon Jan  7 20:11:09 PST 1991

After you eject a disc and then insert another one, click on the stop
button to make it read the disc's table of contents.

Fri Jan  4 13:49:28 PST 1991

This is a minimal program to control the CD-ROM drive on a Sun
workstation for playing audio discs and using the headphone jacks.
It's not likely to compile on any other OS or anything prior to SunOS
4.1 due to the ioctl's for the Sun CD-ROM drive.
