.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/pal2rgb.1,v 1.7 91/07/16 16:14:51 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH PAL2RGB 1 "May 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
pal2rgb \- convert a palette color
.SM TIFF
image to a full color image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pal2rgb
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-8bit
] [
.B \-16bit
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "from-file to-file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pal2rgb
converts a palette color
.SM TIFF
image to a full color image by
applying the colormap of the palette image to each sample
to generate a full color
.SM RGB
image.
By default, 
.I pal2rgb
inspects the colormap values and assumes either 16-bit
or 8-bit values according to the maximum value.
That is, if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
.I pal2rgb
assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise
it assumes 16-bit values (as required by the
.SM TIFF
specification).
To force the colormap to be treated as having 8-bit or
16-bit values, the
.B \-8bit
or
.B \-16bit
flag may be specified, respectively.
.PP
The output image can be compressed with one of the
compression algorithms supported by 
.IR libtiff :
.B \-packbits
for Macintosh Packbits,
.B \-lzw
for Lempel-Ziv & Welch,
.B \-none
for no compression.
If no compression-related option is specified, the input
file's compression algorithm is used.
.PP
As for
.IR tiffcp (1),
the 
.SM TIFF
directory information of the input image is copied through
to the output image. 
The
.BR \-contig ,
.BR \-separate ,
and
.B \-rowsperstrip
options may be used to control the data organization of
the output image.
.SH BUGS
Only 8-bit images are handled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
