.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/ras2tiff.1,v 1.7 91/07/16 16:14:52 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH RAS2TIFF 1 "May 2, 1989"
.SH NAME
ras2tiff \- create a
.SM TIFF
file from a Sun rasterfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ras2tiff
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "rasterfile tiff-file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ras2tiff
converts a file in the Sun rasterfile format to
.SM TIFF.
By default, the
.SM TIFF
image is created with data samples packed (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =1),
compressed with the Lempel-Ziv & Welch algorithm (\c
.IR Compression =5),
and with each strip no more than 8 kilobytes.
These characteristics can overriden, or explicitly specified
with the following options:
.B \-none
(use no compression),
.B \-packbits
(use the PackBits compression algorithm),
.B \-lzw
(use Lempel-Ziv & Welch \- default),
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
(pack
.I n
rows in each strip).
Any colormap information in the rasterfile is carried over to the
.SM TIFF
file by including a
.I Colormap
tag in the output file.
If the rasterfile has a colormap, the
.I PhotometricInterpretation
tag is set to 3 (palette);
otherwise it is set to 2 (RGB) if the depth
is 24 or 1 (min-is-black) if the depth is not 24.
.SH BUGS
Does not handle all possible rasterfiles.
In particular, 
.I ras2tiff
does not handle run-length encoded images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
