.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffdither.1,v 1.10 91/07/16 16:14:55 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFDITHER 1 "May 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
tiffdither \- convert a grayscale image to bilevel using dithering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffdither
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-4
] [
.B \-2
] [
.B \-o
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-t
.I threshold
]
.I "file1 file2"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffdither
converts a single channel 8-bit grayscale image to a bilevel image
using Floyd-Steinberg error propagation with threholding.
By default the threshold value is 128; this can be changed with the
.B \-t
option.
.PP
By default, the data in the resultant image are encoded with
.SM LZW\c
compression.
If the
.B \-f
option is specified, the data are encoded with 
.SM CCITT
Group 3 facsimile encoding.
If the
.B \-4
option is specified, the data are encoded with
.SM CCITT
Group 4 facsimile encoding.
The
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-2 ,
and
.B \-p
options are useful only when the
.B \-f
option is used;
they reverse the default
.SM LSB
to
.SM MSB
bit ordering in the output file, force 2D encoding,
and force zero-padding before
.SM EOL
codes, respectively.
.SH NOTES
The dither algorithm is taken from the
.IR tiffmedian (1)
program (written by Paul Heckbert).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR fax2tiff (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
