.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffdump.1,v 1.7 91/07/16 16:14:55 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFDUMP 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffdump \- print verbatim information about
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffdump
.I "name \&..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffdump
displays directory information from files created according
to the Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
The header of each
.SM TIFF
file (magic number, version, and first directory offset)
is displayed, followed by the tag contents of each directory in the file.
For each tag, the name, datatype, count, and value(s) is displayed.
When the symbolic name for a tag or datatype is known, the symbolic
name is displayed followed by it's numeric (decimal) value.
Tag values are displayed enclosed in ``<>'' characters immediately
preceded by the value of the count field.
For example, an
.I ImageWidth
tag might be displayed as ``ImageWidth (256) SHORT (3) 1<800>''.
.PP
.I Tiffdump
is particularly useful for investigating the contents of
.SM TIFF
files that
.I libtiff
does not understand.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
