.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiff2ps.1,v 1.10 91/07/16 16:14:53 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFF2PS 1 "May 18, 1991"
.SH NAME
tiff2ps \- convert a grayscale
.SM TIFF
image to PostScript\(tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiff2ps
[
.B -width
.IR width
] [
.B -height
.IR height
] [
.B \-#
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiff2ps
reads a
.SM TIFF
image and prints Encapsulated
PostScript (EPS) on the standard output that is suitable for
inclusion in PostScript documents.
The
.B \-#
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR # .
This is useful for selecting individual pages
in multi-page (e.g. facsimile) files.
The
.B \-width
and
.B \-height
options set the image dimensions in inches.
These options override any relevant
.SM TIFF
tags in the input file.
.PP
For
.SM RGB
and palette images,
.IR tiff2ps
generates PostScript that uses the
.IR colorimage
operator.
For greyscale and bilevel images,
.IR tiff2ps
generates PostScript that uses the
.IR image
operator.
.SH BUGS
Since PostScript does not support the notion of a colormap,
8-bit palette images produce 24-bit PostScript images.
This conversion results in output that is six times
bigger than the original and which takes a long time
to send to a printer over a serial line.
Matters are even worse for 4-bit and 2-bit palette images.
.PP
.I tiff2ps
should probably emit the prologue and epilogue needed to
print the image on a standard size page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR tiffsv (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
