.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffsv.1,v 1.9 91/07/16 16:14:58 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFSV 1 "May 2, 1989"
.SH NAME
tiffsv \- save an image from the framebuffer in a
.SM TIFF
file (Silicon Graphics version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffsv
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I name
[
.I "x1 x2 y1 y2"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffsv
saves all or part of the framebuffer in a file using the
Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
By default, the image is saved with data samples packed (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =1),
compressed with the Lempel-Ziv & Welch algorithm (\c
.IR Compression =5),
and with each strip no more than 8 kilobytes.
These characteristics can be overriden, or explicitly specified
with the following options:
.B \-none
(use no compression),
.B \-packbits
(use the PackBits compression algorithm),
.B \-lzw
(use Lempel-Ziv & Welch \- default),
.B \-contig
(pack samples \- default),
.B \-separate
(store samples in separate planes),
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
(pack
.I n
rows in each strip).
.SH NOTE
Except for the use of
.SM TIFF,
this program is equivalent to the standard
.I scrsave
program.
This means, for example, that you can use it in conjunction with
the standard
.IR icut
program simply by creating a link called
.IR scrsave ,
or by creating a shell script called
.I scrsave
that invokes
.I tiffgt
with the appropriate options.
.SH BUGS
If data are saved compressed and in separate planes, then the
rows in each strip is silently set to one to avoid limitations
in the
.IR libtiff (3)
library.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
