.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffmedian.1,v 1.12 91/07/16 16:14:57 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFMEDIAN 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffmedian \- apply the median cut algorithm to data in a
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffmedian
[
.B \-c
.I size
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-none
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "file1 file2"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffmedian
applys the median cut algorithm to an
.SM RGB
image in
.I file1
to generate a palette image that is written to
.IR file2 .
The colormap generated has, by default, 256 entries;
this may be modified with the
.B \-c
option.
By default, the image data is quantized by mapping each
pixel to the closest color values in the colormap.
If the
.B \-f
option is specified, Floyd-Steinberg dithering is done
before selecting a colormap entry.
The remaining options are used to specify a compression algorithm
to use in creating the output file or the number of
rows (scanlines) to place in each data strip in the output file.
By default, the compression algorithm is derived from the
input file and the rows per strip is calculated so that
each strip is no more than 8 kilobytes.
.SH NOTES
This program is derived from Paul Heckbert's
.I median
program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
.br
"Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display", Paul
Heckbert, SIGGRAPH proceedings, 1982, pp. 297-307.
