.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffgt.1,v 1.10 91/07/16 16:14:56 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFGT 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffgt \- display an image stored in a
.SM TIFF
file (Silicon Graphics version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffgt
[
.B \-d
.I dirnum
] [
.B \-f
]
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffgt
displays an image stored in a file with the
Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
The image is placed in a fixed size window that the
user must position on the display.
If the display has fewer than 24 bitplanes, or if the
image does not warrant full color, then
.SM RGB
color values are mapped to the closest values that exist in
the colormap (this work is done by the
.I rgbi
routine found in the graphics utility library
.BR \-lgutil .)
By default,
the first image in the file is displayed;
to display an alternate image, specify the directory
number with the
.B \-d
option; directories are numbered starting at zero.
Normally
.I tiffgt
runs as a background process; the
.B \-f
option forces it to run as a foreground process.
The
.B \-d
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR dirnum .
.PP
.I Tiffgt
correctly handles files with any of the following characteristics:
.sp .5
.in +0.5i
.ta \w'\fIPhotometricInterpretation\fP  'u
.nf
BitsPerSample	1, 2, 4, 8, 16
SamplesPerPixel	1, 3, 4 (the 4th sample is ignored)
PhotometricInterpretation	0 (min-is-white), 1 (min-is-black), 2 (RGB), 3 (palette)
PlanarConfiguration	1 (contiguous), 2 (separate)
Orientation	1 (top-left), 4 (bottom-left)
.fi
.in -0.5i
.sp .5
Data may be compressed with any of the compression algorithms supported
by the 
.IR libtiff (3)
library.
If data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2),
then the
.I RowsPerStrip
must be one.
.PP
For palette images (\c
.IR PhotomatricInterpretation =3),
.I tiffgt
inspects the colormap values and assumes either 16-bit
or 8-bit values according to the maximum value.
That is, if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
.I tiffgt
assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise
it assumes 16-bit values.
This inspection is done to handle old images written by
previous (incorrect) versions of
.IR libtiff .
.PP
If a file can be read with
.IR tiffinfo (1),
but can not be displayed, convert it to have the above characteristics
with
.IR tiffcp (1).
.SH BUGS
.IR PhotometricInterpretation =4
(holdout mask) should be handled (I had no examples to use for testing).
Images wider and taller than the display are silently truncated to avoid
crashing old versions of the window manager.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
