.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffinfo.1,v 1.10 91/07/16 16:14:56 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH TIFFINFO 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffinfo \- print information about
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffinfo
[
.B \-D
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-#
]
.I "name \&..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffinfo
displays information about files created according
to the Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
By default, the contents of each
.SM TIFF
directory in each file
is displayed, with the value of each tag shown symbolically
(where sensible).
.PP
The
.B \-D
option forces
.I tiffinfo
to read and decompress all the data in a file (but not display it).
.PP
The
.B \-d
option forces
.I tiffinfo
to print each byte of decompressed data stored in a file in hexadecimal.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option forces
.I tiffinfo
to display the colormap and color/gray response curves,
if present.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option forces
.I tiffinfo
to display the offsets and byte counts for each data strip in
a directory.
.PP
The
.B \-#
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR # .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
