.TH XHELP 1 "10 September 1991"
.SH NAME
xhelp \- X Window System Help Facility 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIUSER MODE\fB
.LP
	xhelp  \fIhelp_file.hlp\fB  \fIhelp_topic_id\fB  
.LP
	(Alternative, from an application, using the interface provided in xhelp.h.)
.LP
\fIDEVELOPER MODE\fB
.LP
	xhelp
.LP
	xhelp \fIhelp_file.hlp\fB
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBXHELP\fR is a shared, context-sensitive help facility for use with X
applications.  A simple interface is provided (in xhelp.h) to give application
code access to the help facility.  The interface is responsible for invoking
XHELP and processing help requests.   
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\XHELP has two modes of operation: USER and DEVELOPER MODE.
.LP
\fB\fIUSER MODE\fB
is intended  primarily for use by applications.  Using the XHELP interface,
provided in xhelp.h (See this file for instructions), automatically brings up the help 
facility in "read-only" mode.  XHELP can be invoked in USER MODE from the command line
by supplying two parameters: a help FILENAME and a help TOPIC ID. 
.LP
\fB\fIDEVELOPER MODE\fB is used by application "developers" to create, edit and save
help files. (These features are not present in USER MODE.)  Running XHELP from the command
line, supplying either no parameters, or one parameter (a help FILENAME, without the 
topic id) brings up the help facility in DEVELOPER MODE.  
.LP
For convenience, text may be cut and pasted between XHELP and other applications.  
.TP
.SH RELATED FILES
See the file "xhelp.h" for information on interfacing application code
to the help facility.  
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Newsome (mnewsome@eng.auburn.edu) and Cherri M. Pancake
