.\"
.\" $Header: sjx.1,v 4.300 91/06/07 22:51:21 root Rel41 $ SONY;
.\"
.\"	
.TH SJX 1 "October 1990"
.SH NAME
sjx \- Japanese language input front end processor for X Window System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sjx
[ \fB\-help\fP ] [ \fB-o\fP ] [ \fB\-display\fP display ]
[ \fB\-fn\fP font ] [ \fB\-jfn\fP japanese font ]
[ \fB\-fg\fP foreground ] [ \fB\-bg\fP background ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sjx
is a Japanese language input front end processor that performs kana-kanji conversion for applications running over X Window System.
.PP
.I sjx
communicates with applications running over X Window System and performs kana-kanji conversion on the Roman letter or half-width kana data it receives. The results are then passes to the application.
.PP
When 
.I sjx
is run, the setup file `.sjrc' in the home directory is read and the settings it contains are then used for the operation of the program. If there is no `.sjrc' file, the default settings are used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-help
Displays a description of available options; does not run 
.I sjx.
.TP 15
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies which X server is connected.
.TP 15
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
This option specifies the half-width kana font.
.TP 15
.B \-jfn \fIjapanese font\fP
This option specifies the kanji font.
.TP 15
.B \-fg \fIforeground\fP
This option specifies the foreground color.
.TP 15
.B \-bg \fIbackground\fP
This option specifies the background color.
.PP
.SH X DEFAULTS
.I sjx
reads in the defaults using the \fIXGetDefault(3X)\fP routine.
.PP
.TP 15
.B font
Specifies the half-width kana font.
.PP
.TP 15
.B japaneseFont
Specifies the kanji font.
.PP
.TP 15
.B foreground
Specifies the foreground color.
.PP
.TP 15
.B background
Specifies the background color.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 15
/usr/sony/dict/sj3/sj3main.dic
Main kana-kanji conversion dictionary
.TP
/usr/sony/dict/sj3/user/*
User-defined kana-kanji conversion dictionary
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
sj3(1), sj3dic(1), sj3lib(3)
.PP
The chapter on Japanese input in the NEWS-OS User's Manual and the chapter on Japanese input in the NEWS-OS Programmer's Manual
