.TH XFED 1 "17 Mar 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xfed \- font editor for X window systems bdf fontfiles

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfed
[\fIoptions\fP] filename.bdf

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I xfed
lets you interactively edit existing bdf-fontfiles.
When started,
.I xfed,
opens up a window showing a magnified version of the characters in the font.
There are four buttons to interact with 
.I xfed
, two stepping buttons to advance to the previous/next character in the
font, a write-file button and an exit button.
.br
If you leave
.I xfed
without pressing the write-button, no changes will be written to the
fontfile; otherwise the original fontfile is saved
to a backup file (filename~) and the new output written onto the original
fontfile.

.I xfed
accepts the following command line arguments:

.PP
.TP 8
.I -fg colorname
as usual - default is black
.PP
.TP 8
.I -bg colorname
as usual - default is white
.PP
.TP 8
.I -bd colorname
as usual - default is black
 note, that this color is also used for the grid; 'xfed -bd red ...' looks nice.
.PP
.TP 8
.I -bw number
as usual - default is 1
.PP
.TP 8
.I -nogrid
do not draw a grid (not very useful)
.PP
.TP 8
.I -psize number
to change the pixel magnification factor (default 16)

.SH COMMANDS

When the cursor is in the edit region, each mouse button has
a different effect upon the square that the cursor is over.

The 
.I left mouse button
turns a pixel to black

The 
.I right mouse button
turns a pixel to white

The
.I middle mouse button
inverts a pixel, turning it white if it was
black, or black if it was white.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
DISPLAY \- the default host and display number.

.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), bitmap(1)
.br
.I Bitmap Distribution Format

.SH BUGS
.PP
Many edit features are missing.
.PP
Should be able to change font characteristics and character properties.
.PP
There is no way to write to a file other than that specified on the
command line.
.PP
Should let you set the display font for the info windows.
Rewriting as a toolkit program would solve this.
.PP
The size of the grid and bounding box displayed sometimes seem wrong.
The bbx computation in \fIparse.y\fP may be incorrect.
.PP
If you move the mouse too fast while holding a mouse button down,
some squares may be missed.  This is caused by limitations in how
frequently the X server can sample the mouse location.

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1988 by Siemens

Claus Gittinger
.br
Software Consultant
.br
Siemens Munich
.br
Dep. D-St-Sp-4
.br
Charles-de-Gaullestr. 2a
.br
8000 Munich/Neuperlach
.br
West Germany
.br

Email: ..!decvax!unido!sinix!claus
