.TH fontview 1 "2 October 1991" "Adobe Systems"
.SH NAME
fontview \- Display PostScript font viewer
.SH SYNTAX
fontview [toolkit options] [-debug]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PN Fview
allows the user to view all of the available fonts on a given X/DPS
server.  If the X server specified, does not support the Display
PostScript extension, a message will be printed and the program will
exit.  

After starting up, a font panel will be visible on the left side of the
window.  Selection is made by choosing the font in the top scroll box
and the size in the selector box (or text box) immediately below.

Fview has several demos which may change without notice.  The current
implementation has six:  Character Set, Quotation, Text Wheel, Outline
Text, Slanted Text, and a text Fountain.  Character Set and Quotation
output predefined
text, while Text Wheel, Outline Text, Slanted Text, and Fountain
prompt the user
for input.

After executing a demo, the demo "page" scrolls up the proper amount to
accomidate it.  A scrollbar (at right) may be used to examine text which
has scrolled off of the screen.  If a new demo is executed, the scrollbar
will move back to the bottom of the window to view the new output.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Usage of the -debug option will open up a text context on stdout.  All
PostScript sent to the X/DPS extension will be displayed on the screen
as well.

.SH BUGS
Slanted Text and Outline Text shoud be modifiers rather than demos themselves.

.SH AUTHOR
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH NOTES
PostScript and Display PostScript are registered trademarks of Adobe Systems
Incorporated.
.PP
Copyright (c) 1990-1991 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All rights reserved.

