.TH LCLOCK 1 "Release 4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
lclock \- display time of day
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lclock
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Clock
simply displays the current time on an analog display
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIbackground color\fB
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-minute \fIminute color\fB
choose a different color for the minute hand of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-hour \fIhour color\fB
choose a different color for the hour hand of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-backing \fI{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\fB
selects an appropriate level of backing store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define the initial window geometry; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify the display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIborder color\fB
choose a different color for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIborder width\fB
choose a different width for the window border.  As the Clock widget changes
its border around quite a bit, this is most usefully set to zero.
.SH COLORS
Although the default colors for the Clock widget are black and white, the
widget was designed in color; unfortunately, the toolkit makes specifying
these colors in a device-independent manner difficult.  If you want to
see the correct colors, add the following lines to your resource file:
.sp 1
Clock*Background: grey
.br
Clock*BorderColor: light blue
.br
Clock*hour: yellow
.br
Clock*minute: yellow
.SH BUGS
Should really be called \fBxclock\fR, but that name was already taken.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X Toolkit documentation
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Copyright 1990, Network Computing Devices, Inc.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
