.TH XcuEntry 3X "\fBCornell University Widget Set\fR"
.ad b
.de}F    
.ds)H Program of Computer Graphics
.ev1
.}E
.if\\n()s 'sp |\\n(.pu-1v-1p
.if\\n()t 'sp |\\n(.pu-3v
.ifn 'sp |\\n(.pu-4v
.tl\\*()H- % -\\*(]W
'bp
.ev
..
.SH NAME
XcuEntry \- Display keyboard entry
.ne 4
.SH CLASS HIERARCHY
\ 
.br
Core / XcuSimple / XcuLabel / XcuCommand / XcuEntry
.ne 4
.SH NEW RESOURCES
\ 
.br
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c s s s.
XcuEntry Resources
.T&
lB lB lB lB.
Name;Type;Default;Description
_
.T&
lB l l l.
XtNeraseChar;String;"\\\\010";Erase character key
XtNkillChar;String;"\\\\025";Erase line key
XtNsignalChar;String;"\\\\004";Key that signals end of entry
XtNcolorEntry;Boolean;False;Color name text expected
XtNprefix;String;NULL;Invariant prefixed text
.TE
.ne 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
\ 
.br
When the cursor is in the widget, any keyboard entry updates the label.
When the signal character (control-D, by default) is entered, the XtNcallback
callback list is activated.
.sp
When text is known to be single line entry, it is probably more convenient
to change the signal character to "\\n".
.sp
The kill character erases the current line.  It will not back up to a
previous line.  The erase character, however, will erase newlines.
.sp
When XtNcolorEntry is true, the background of the widget will be the
color of the label.  The foreground will be black or white, depending
on the intensity of the background.
.ne 6
.SH FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS
\ 
.br
There should probably be a "clear entry" character that clears the
entire label.
.sp
There are probably some full-fledged editor widgets around with which
I won't try to compete.

.ne 4
.SH SEE ALSO
\ 
.br
XcuCommand(3X), XcuLabel(3X), XcuSimple(3X)
.ne 4
.SH AUTHOR
\ 
.br
Gene Dykes, \fIgwd@freedom.graphics.cornell.edu\fR
.br
Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University

